Blog: Current State of 2019 Third Party Kubernetes Audit (#36971)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-10-05-current-state-2019-third-party-audit.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Current State: 2019 Third Party Security Audit of Kubernetes"
date: 2022-10-05
slug: current-state-2019-third-party-audit

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
evergreen: true
---
```
This article will not need updates as it is an accurate point in time snapshot.
Although, I would suggest putting the month and year into the `title` to avoid a small risk of folks getting misled.

Reviewer: (this is an optional improvement)

> **Authors**: Cailyn Edwards, Pushkar Joglekar, Rory McCune and Rey Lejano

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Authors**: Cailyn Edwards (Shopify), Pushkar Joglekar (VMware), Rory McCune (DataDog) and Rey Lejano (SUSE)
```
As suggested by @sftim in this [comment](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/36971#discussion_r981474676)

> A brand new Third Party Security Audit of Kubernetes is expected to be
> published later this month (Oct 2022). 

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
We're expecting that a brand new Third Party Security Audit of Kubernetes will
be published later this month (Oct 2022). 
````

> In preparation for that, let's look at the state of findings that were made
> public as part of the last [third
> party security audit of
> 2019](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/tree/main/sig-security-external-audit/security-audit-2019).

Reviewer 2: nit: should we add the Kubernetes version that was used in the 2019 audit
non-blocking since folks can read the 2019 audit

```suggestion
In preparation for that, let's look at the state of findings that were made
public as part of the last [third party security audit of 
2019](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/tree/main/sig-security-external-audit/security-audit-2019)
that was based on Kubernetes 1.13.4.
```

## Motivation

> [Craig Ingram](https://github.com/cji) has graciously attempted over the years to keep track of the 
> status of the findings reported in the last audit in this issue:
> [kubernetes/kubernetes#81146](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81146)
> . This blog post will attempt to dive deeper into this, address any gaps

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
[Craig Ingram](https://github.com/cji) has graciously attempted over the years to keep track of the 
status of the findings reported in the last audit in this issue:
[kubernetes/kubernetes#81146](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81146).
This blog post will attempt to dive deeper into this, address any gaps
```

in tracking and become a point in time summary of the state of the
findings reported from 2019.

> This blog should also help folks gain confidence through transparent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article should also help folks gain confidence through transparent
```

|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1      | hostPath PersistentVolumes enable PodSecurityPolicy bypass                  | [#81110](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81110) | closed, addressed by [kubernetes/website#15756](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/15756)                                                                                                                               |
| 2      | Kubernetes does not facilitate certificate revocation                       | [#81111](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81111) | duplicate of [#18982](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/18982) and needs a KEP                                                                                                                                    |

> | 3      | HTTPS connections are not authenticated                                     | [#81112](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81112) | Largely left as an end user exercise in setting up the right configuration                                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer 3: I don't see f/u for this below?

If you peel the layers I disagree that the root issue is only [an end user exercise](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81112#issuecomment-520162629)

From this particular discussion @liggitt identified that even with all the flags configured as documented, ["the apiserver does not verify the TLS serving certificate presented by the backend"](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81112#issuecomment-520490993) and further proposes (maybe there is a KEP for this already?) the ["pod spec hostname/subdomain API fields"](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81112#issuecomment-520491760) for authentication.

But TLS doesn't (without extensions proposed) generally verify hostname (or IP) for the authentication, eg. ["TLS does not protect the source or destination IP and port address of the TCP connection. As is stated in the TLS RFC, TLS is application layer independent."](https://alpaca-attack.com/#question-answer) - just the crypto of the certificates which includes the signature of the x509 CN attribute _which can be anything_ so there has to be agreement on the app level protocol to use, which is what is recommended above. So just the use of [client cert mutual auth TLS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#x509-client-certs) doesn't in and of itself solve all problems.  (But it probably solves the problem originally identified.)

To me the tangential but probably most important issue here is [so many proxies!](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/access-cluster/#so-many-proxies) and maybe a lack of documentation of the design forces and use cases of each sufficient to enable the operator to clearly articulate when to use each and how. (or maybe just lack of time to find all the documentation including this author ;) And maybe more generally [understanding of the issues re: authn vs authz](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/kubelet-authn-authz/).

Reviewer: To me, @PushkarJ is correct. The _actual situation_ is that the project is treating this as an issue for end users.

@sunstonesecure-robert you might not like the situation. However, this is not really the best place for that feedback. This blog article is perhaps like a newpaper article about what banks have done about security. Even if an editor of that newspaper is a customer at the same bank, I wouldn't expect the editor to give feedback to the journalist about their reporting.

Feel free to suggest new wording @sunstonesecure-robert but remember that your new wording should aim to better capture the existing situation. If, separately, you want to add comments to any of the issues that are open, you're welcome to. Help with those issues is also very welcome.

Author: Thanks @sftim - agree with your analysis and ask for moving the conversation outside of this blog PR. 

@sunstonesecure-robert thanks for the detailed feedback. I have added a link to your comment to the original issue so if needed folks can continue the discussion with you there: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81112#issuecomment-1266123234

With a clear path for future follow up I am gonna mark this as resolved.

| 34     | Hardcoded use of insecure gRPC transport                                    | [#81142](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81142) | Needs a KEP                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 35     | Incorrect handling of Retry-After                                           | [#81143](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81143) | closed, fixed by [#91048](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/91048)                                                                                                                                                  |
| 36     | Incorrect isKernelPid check                                                 | [#81144](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81144) | closed, fixed by [#81086](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/81086)                                                                                                                                                  |

> | 37     | Kubelet supports insecure TLS ciphersuites                                  | [#81145](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81145) | closed but fix needed for [#91444](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/91444) (see [this comment](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81145#issuecomment-630291221))                                           |

Reviewer: This looks right to me.

> 

Reviewer 2: The following is a non-blocking suggestion.
I would like to highlight [KEP-1933: Defend Against Logging Secrets via Static Analysis ](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-security/1933-secret-logging-static-analysis) which was motivated by the third party security audit and contributors that helped implement the KEP

@PurelyApplied , what do you think of including this KEP in this blog and are there any other contributors that helped with implementing KEP 1933

```suggestion
Along with the issues above, the 2019 third party security audit motivated [Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal (KEP) 1933 Defend Against Logging Secrets via Static Analysis] (https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-security/1933-secret-logging-static-analysis) to prevent exposing secrets to logs with [Patrick Rhomberg](@PurelyApplied) driving the implementation. As a result of this KEP, [`go-flow-levee`](https://github.com/google/go-flow-levee), a taint propagation analysis tool configured to detect logging of secrets, is executed in a [script](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/hack/verify-govet-levee.sh) as a Prow presubmit job. This KEP was introduced in v1.20.0 as an alpha feature, then graduated to beta in v1.21.0, and graduated to stable in v1.23.0. As stable, the analysis runs as a blocking presubmit test. This KEP also helped resolve the following issues from the 2019 third party security audit:
  - [#81114 Bearer tokens are revealed in logs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81114)
  - [#81117 Environment variables expose sensitive data](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81117)
  - [#81130 iSCSI volume storage cleartext secrets in logs](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81130)

```

Author: @reylejano I added a separate sub-section, to cover this as an example of "inspired outcomes"

| Kubernetes does not facilitate certificate revocation                            | [#81111](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81111) | High            | High       | Medium               |
| Use of InsecureSkipVerify and other TLS weaknesses                               | [#81119](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81119) | High            | High       | Medium               |
| Kubectl can cause a local Out Of Memory error with a malicious Pod specification | [#81123](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81123) | Medium          | Medium     | Medium               |
| Improper fetching of PIDs allows incorrect cgroup movement                       | [#81124](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81124) | Medium          | Medium     | Medium               |
| kubelet liveness probes can be used to enumerate host network                    | [#81129](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81129) | High            | High       | Medium               |

> | API Server supports insecure TLS ciphersuites                                    | [#81145](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81145) | Medium          | Medium     | Low                  |

Reviewer 3: I'd strongly argue the benefit to the ecosystem is critically, indispensably high.  Without taking the extra effort to fix this in production systems your apiserver is effectively and practically insecure. I recall [this xkcd](https://xkcd.com/2347) and replace its point with all modern security balancing on  _very flawed and fragile assumptions about the out of the box security of TLS_.

Reviewer: Based on my understanding of thee issue, I'd have it as a Low, given that cluster operators have to opt in to running a more vulnerable cipher / cipher suite. People who don't know much about TLS are unlikely to turn these on.

We could add some details about [not doing[ that to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/security-checklist/

exploit. These estimates and values in the table below are the authors'
personal opinion. An individual or end users' threat model may rate the
benefits to fix a particular issue higher or lower.

{{</note>}}

| Title                                                                                                        | Issue                                                           | Time Commitment | Complexity | Benefit to Ecosystem |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | ---------- | -------------------- |
| Kubernetes does not facilitate certificate revocation                                                        | [#81111](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81111) | High            | High       | Medium               |
| Use of InsecureSkipVerify and other TLS weaknesses                                                           | [#81119](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81119) | High            | High       | Medium               |

> | Kubectl can cause a local Out Of Memory error with a malicious Pod specification                             | [#81123](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/81123) | Medium          | Medium     | Medium               |

Reviewer 2: Added this suggestion and [previous suggestion](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/36971#discussion_r986962040) in followup PR https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/37156
